[[standardssection]]
== Section models

The `StandardDocument` model extends the `BasicDocument`
modelling of sections by specialising the `BasicSection` class as
follows:

* All sections in a `StandardDocument` model are instances of the
`StandardSection` class, which is a subclass of `BasicSection`.

* The `StandardSection` class indicates its status as normative or
informative explicitly, through the `status` attribute. (This
attribute has been added because it is overtly specified in
<<isoiecdir2>>, but the normative status of individual sections in
a standard is pertinent to any standards document.)

* Sections in a standards document fall into two categories: Clause
Sections, which are numbered, and form part of the main flow of the
document, and Content sections (Standard Hierarchical Sections),
which are optionally not numbered, and which lie outside the main
flow of the document.

* Four Content sections are defined with distinct names, as they
recur in standardization documents and have distinct semantics:
Abstract, Foreword, Introduction, and Acknowledgments.
Specializations of the model may define other such sections.

* Clause Sections are by default hierarchical (but see <<terms>>).
The subclauses of Clauses are themselves Clause Sections; they
continue the hierarchical numbering of Clause Sections at deeper
hierarchical levels. The subclauses of Content sections are
``StandardSection``s, and need not be numbered.

* Both Content Sections and Clause Sections can have a type, which
allows them to be semantically classified into recurring
categories, which may be processed and rendered differently.
Indicative values include: executive-summary, errata, methods,
requirements, tests, reagents, tests.

* Annexes and Clause Sections are modelled in the same way in the
`StandardDocument` model. However they are expected to be
numbered differently, and to be rendered as separate sequences.

Although it is difficult to capture in a container-based model, the
`StandardDocument` model requires "hanging paragraphs" to be
avoided: a Clause section in particular should contain either
blocks or subsections, but not both. This is a requirement in
<<isoiecdir2>>, but the need to reference text in clauses
unambiguously by clause number makes the avoidance of hanging
paragraphs desirable for standardization documents in general. The
requirement is less pressing for Content sections (which are
unnumbered), and Annexes (as exemplified in <<isoiecdir2>> itself.)

._StandardsDocument_ model: Section
image::models/metanorma-model-standoc/images/StandardDoc_Sections.png[]
