
[[terms]]
== Terms Section and Definition Section

The `StandardDocument` model models two further subclasses of
Clause Sections:

* _Definition Sections_ consist of one or more Definition lists
(see <<basicdocument>>), and are used to define symbols and
abbreviations used in the remainder of the document. They can also
be used as glossaries, with simple definitions, in contrast to the
more elaborate definitions given in Terms Sections.

* _Terms Sections_ give elaborated definitions of terms used in the
document; they are intended to align to the structure of terms in
<<isoiecdir2>>. Term Sections consist of zero or more Terms;
_Terms_ in turn are composed of the following elements:

`id`:: An optional identifier for the term, to be used in
cross-references.

`preferred`:: One or more names under which the term being defined
is canonically known.

`admitted`:: Zero or more names which are acceptable synonyms for
the term being defined.

`related`:: Zero or more names which are related to the term being
defined. Each has a type, indicating how the term is related;
permitted values are compare (for "see also" references to terms),
contrast (for terms that illuminate the term definition as what it
is not), see (if this is a deprecated term, to reference the
preferred term)

`deprecates`:: Zero or more names which are deprecated synonyms for
the term being defined.

`domain`:: An optional semantic domain for the term being defined,
in case the term is ambiguous between several semantic domains.

`grammar`:: Zero or more abbreviations giving grammatical
information about the term (e.g. part of speech, gender)

`definition`:: The definition of the term applied in the current
document.

`note`:: Zero or more notes about the term.

`example``:: Zero or more examples of how the term is to be used.

`source`:: Zero or more bibliographical sources for the term. These
include the `origin` of the term, which is its bibliographical
citation (as defined in <<relaton>>); the `status` of the
definition (whether `identical` to the definition given in the
origin cited, or `modified`); and, if the definition is modified, a
description of the `modification` to the definition applied for
this document.


Both types of section can include prefatory text; in the case of
Definition Sections, each Definition list can be preceded by
prefatory text. Both types of section are leaf nodes, and cannot
contain subclauses of their own: nested Terms or Definition
Sections are modelled as Clause Sections with subclauses,
terminating in Definition and Terms clauses.

._StandardsDocument_ model: Term Section and Definition Section
image::models/metanorma-model-standoc/images/StandardDoc_Terms.png[]
